Today we will go into the detail
of one of the main blocks of
Canvas, which is the revenue flows.
This is what many people mean
when they talk about business model,
but you already know now that
it's a mistake, that the business
model is something much wider
than the nine blocks.
But there are a lot of people who talk
about business model and think it's
just the flow of income and maybe
it relates it to the flow of
expenses.
What we will see is a list of
the different possibilities that
a company has to earn money.
And you'll probably tell me later that
it's pretty obvious.
Yes, it is very obvious.
And when you see them you will say
it is common sense, but I'm sure
if I ask you now, of the eight we're
going to see you can say three
or four as much.
And what I always say, and I would
like to emphasize, is that acquiring
this type of knowledge, acquiring
the theory, even if it is common
sense, even if it is to reinforce
it is super enriching.
Why is it?
Because it allows you to have a solid
foundation on which to build, on
which to innovate.
If you face the challenge of evolving
a business model, it's much easier
for you to think about it.
Look for a formula, for example, for
monetization freemium or subscription
or for advertising or whatever, if
you have, if you have assimilated
very well, if you are aware
of all the formulas there.
If you don't know it, if you don't have it
present, it's impossible for you to think of it.
Well, it's easier to be creative
from a solid knowledge of the
theory.
Well, let's see, these are the eight
formulas and we'll go looking
at them one by one.
The first is the easiest, the most obvious,
is the sale of products.
It is independent and independent the
channel through which you sell them.
You can sell products through
an online e-commerce channel
like Zappos, for example, or
sell cars as a dealer,
for example.
The point is that you are
the owner, you have control
of some goods you sell, if
you usually charge a margin for it.
The second, the most common,
is the sale of services.
Services are usually consumed in
quota per use.
The more you consume of a service,
the more you pay.
A hotel charges for the
nights it sells.
There are cases, and I put this
as an example, because in many cases
business models combine several
different sources of income
and in the previous case we have
seen of the car dealer, because
it also sells services because
it sells reviews and other
kinds of services.
Globo is a mobile application
that offers services of urban
transport, transport of goods
or receipts, etc.
As you sell more, you
get more.
What is obvious?
It sounds very obvious, yes, but it's
a totally variable income.
If it does not sell services, it does not
charge and that also
generates seasonalities, etc.
A law firm has several income
models, you can have them,
but one of them is variable.
If you can capture customers with
new cases, you will charge for that
particular case.
And what I am going to do is that
there is another formula, which
is subscription, that unlike
the variable income as in
the previous cases, in this
case, we that there is a totality
or at least a part of income
that is recurrent, that is a
fixed monthly.
Subscriptions have always been given.
There have been subscriptions of
all kinds, after subscribing, for
example, to the press, but in the
digital world they are growing a lot.
Netflix, for example, pays a monthly
fee of between 8 and 12 euros
and you have the right to all the
content that Netflix has licensed.
Amazon is an example of how companies
are looking for this recurring
income.
Amazon had an e-commerce, then a marketplace
and what it does is incorporate
Amazon Prime, which is a service
with certain added values with
respect to the rest of customers
for which you pay a monthly
fee.
It is a movement that is being
very common and the subscription
share in the B2B world,
business to business and in the
digital world, is growing
a barbarity.
And I'll put you as an example,
we at The Power Envy pay
a lot of quotas to very
different companies, mostly
software companies.
It is what is called software
as a service, which you offer from
CRM, platform management,
social media imagining, emailing,
marketing automation, etc.
There are a lot of companies,
especially American
companies, here it is growing
but we go a little behind, that
offer software services to other
companies in these formats,
in subscription format and
what is happening is
that companies are increasingly
paying more monthly fees
for services of this
type.
The freemium, freemium is a
concept that incorporates a free service
plus a premium service and the case
of the most well-known is that
of Dropbox, Spotify too that we
will see in detail.
Dropbox, almost all of us have been
or are basic users of Dropbox for
free, but if you want to have more
storage, other services
you have to pay the fee, the
premium fee, free plus premium
is equal to freemium.
Wallapop, for example, there are many,
especially is being given in the
world applications, in companies
that have millions of users, that
the way to start making money
is incorporated into premium
services, such as Wallapop.
Wallapop until not long ago did
not have a way to earn money from
its users, only advertising.
Well, because there is incorporated
a premium quota or a premium payment,
which I do not know if it is quota
or payment that allows you
to place your ads, the ads you
put on Wallapop of second-hand products,
give them more visibility.
Another classic formula for earning
money that has always been given is
the broker, it is the intermediation
and the intermediation is given
in circumstances in models of this
way to charge in the marketplaces,
in the digital platforms, which
they do is put in common offer
and demand and when a transaction
is generated, because the platform
like Airbnb charges a percentage
of that, or as booking,
for example.
But well, as that other life said,
because here we have an immovable
agent, the immovable agent,
his model of collection, his income
flow, that is a percentage on
the transaction, on the operation
that was done thanks to
its intermediation.
A credit card would be like
that.
In all cases, despite the fact that
they are business models as we
have seen totally different,
in all cases the particularity
is that you do not sell or lend
the service, but what you do is
put in common the supply and demand.
One of the main ways to make
money is advertising and it's
something we have to understand
very well, because the opportunities
are huge, although now
you may not be aware.
This is the world's digital
economy.
Who has traditionally made a lot
of money from advertising?
Well, because the media
or if you had advertising
space, people hired space
on sites that had a lot
of visibility.
But things have changed and now
there are millions of and millions
of people in the world who
make money from advertising.
Google Adsense, for example, allows
you to make money if you have a
blog, a website, as soon as you have
some traffic or enough traffic,
you can already start to make
money with advertising.
Well, what I want you to keep in mind
is that today there are millions
of very different business models,
apps of all kinds, people who
create content on blogs, youtubers,
a lot of different business
models who are making money
from advertising.
So we have to know the formulas,
we have to bear in mind that
this opportunity exists
and we will see it in more detail.
A traditional formula for earning
income is to exploit, to get a
profitability of assets you have
and others make use of, because
it is either a capital you lend
or real estate assets
you rent, etc.
This is the traditional business of,
for example, a bank.
The last of the formulas we
will look at are licenses.
Licenses are the income generated
when you exploit an asset
that is intangible
or intangible.
For example, an audiovisual
content maker like Disney earns
money when it licenses the product
it has created.
Or if you are a patent owner,
like in the case of Tetra Pak,
then exactly the same.
When a third company makes use
of your patent, you are making
money from it.
The software industry has
always worked.
One of the ways to monetize
software is by licensing.
For example, here are the offers of
the office.
The office traditionally you paid
a license, whatever it was,
and you could already use
the office permanently.
Currently, the software world tends
to pay a subscription fee for
software as a service.
And now you can actually hire
the office on a monthly basis, paying
something every month.
The Office 365.
These are all the formulas
that exist.
As I said at the beginning of
the class, it is important that
we keep them in mind, because when
we want to evolve or create a
new business model, it is easier
to build if you are aware of
all the formulas that exist.